docs: refine documentation 0.7 (#643)
jina-ai/finetuner: docs/advanced-topics/negative-mining.md

> (negative-mining)=

Reviewer: It took me a while and some googling to understand what this document is about. I think I should step away from reviewing this document and take a stab at rewriting some of it to be clearer in a separate ticket.

Reviewer 2: TODO: 
- Negative Minining is mentioned but not explained
- hard to understand for someone new to the field
-

# {octicon}`telescope` Negative Mining

## Context: Deep Metric Learning

Metric Learning algorithms attempt to teach the Deep Neural Network (DNN) to tell
which objects are semantically/visually similar and which ones are not.

> For uni-modal fine-tuning tasks such as text-to-text, image-to-image, or mesh-to-mesh,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For single-mode fine-tuning tasks such as text-to-text, image-to-image, or mesh-to-mesh,
```

Author: what's wrong with unimodal? i think it's more common than single-model

> Finetuner is dependent on algorithms & tricks developed for metric learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finetuner is dependent on algorithms and tricks developed for metric learning.
```

![batch-sample](../imgs/batch-sampling.png)

Assume we have a list of Documents belonging to four classes: `1`, `2`, `3`, and `4`,

> Finetuner will evenly sample *X* items per class to make a batch *B*.

Author: i won't change this because `make` was suggested by scott..

> Finetuner will evenly sample *X* items per class to fulfill a batch *B*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finetuner will evenly sample *X* items per class to make a batch *B*.
```

In the next step,
Finetuner creates all possible Triplets *(anchor, pos, neg)* from a batch.
These Triplets become the training data.
The objective is to pull Documents that belong to the same class together,

> while pushing the Documents which belong to a different class away from each other.

Author: at least for all now,, we always use TripletMarginLoss until we roll out Arcface/Adaface stuff. We come back and improve this documentation

![training](../imgs/metric-train.png)

## Why mining?

> After Triplets construction,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After constructing a set of triplets,
```

all possible *(anchor, pos, neg)* Triplets becomes the training data.
However,
what if the pre-trained model already performs well on some of the Triplets?

To put it in another way: *what if the distance between `anchor` and `pos` is smaller than

> the distance between `anchor` and `neg`?*

Reviewer: These two paras are not well constructed. I need to think about how to say it.

These Triplets,
does not contribute to improving the model.

> A more effective way is to use hard/semi-hard negative samples for model training.

Reviewer: These three paras are not well constructed. I need to think about how to say it.

Reviewer 2: TODO: to short to understand it

Reviewer 2: maybe move this mining part to advanced configuration

![mining](../imgs/mining.png)

Let's say `1₀` is an `anchor`, `1₁` is the `pos` while `2₄` is the `neg`, if:

+ `D(anchor, neg) < D(anchor, pos) `, then `neg` can be considered as a "hard negative" (`2₄ - H`).
+ `D(anchor, pos) < D(anchor, neg) < D(anchor, pos) + margin`, where `neg` is a little further from the `pos`, but within the margin, then `neg` can be considered as a "semi-hard negative" (`2₄ - S`).

> + `D(anchor, neg) > D(anchor, pos) + margin`, then `neg` can be considered as "easy negative" (`2₄ - E`).

Author: this is a reflection of the image above.

## How?

Finetuner allows you to use miners provided by the [PyTorch Metric Learning](https://kevinmusgrave.github.io/pytorch-metric-learning) framework.
To select a specific miner, you can pass its name to the fit function, e.g., `AngularMiner`, `TripletMarginMiner`, ...

Please note that the miner has to be compatible with the loss function you selected.
For instance, if you choose to train a model with the `TripleMarginLoss`, you can use the `TripletMarginMiner`.
While without this miner, all possible triples with an anchor, a positive, and a negative candidate are constructed, the miner reduces this set of triples.
Usually, only triples with hard negatives are selected where the distance between the positive and the negative example is inside a margin of `0.2`.
If you want to pass additional parameters to configure the miner, you can specify the `miner_options` parameter of the fit function.
The example below shows how to apply hard-negative mining:

```diff
run = finetuner.fit(
    ...,
    loss='TripleMarginLoss',
+   miner='TripletMarginMiner',
+   miner_options={'margin': 0.3, 'type_of_triplets': 'hard'}
)
```

The possible choices `type_of_triplets` are:

> + `all`: Use all triplets, identical to no mining.

Reviewer 2: TODO: this is actually wrong

(negative-mining)=
# {octicon}`telescope` Negative Mining

> Negative Mining is an advanced technique, which optimizes the way data is sampled from you training dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Negative Mining is an advanced machine learning technique, which optimizes the way data is sampled from your training dataset.
```

> Usually, it aims at making the metric learning tasks for the model harder during the training. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It works by slowing down metric learning, 
```

Reviewer 2: I would rather say it speeds it up :laughing: but I think both does not really make sense.

> In this way it can lead to better fine-tuning results.

Reviewer: leading to better fine-tuning results.

> In this way it can lead to better fine-tuning results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
leading to better fine-tuning results.
```

## Context: Deep Metric Learning

> To understand negative mining, we first take a look at how the training data 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's take a look at how we construct the training data for metric learning tasks.
```

construction is done for metric learning tasks.

Metric Learning algorithms attempt to teach neural network models to tell
which objects are semantically/visually similar and which ones are not.

For uni-modal fine-tuning tasks such as text-to-text, image-to-image, or mesh-to-mesh,
Finetuner constructs training data in the following way:

![batch-sample](../imgs/batch-sampling.png)

Assume we have a list of Documents belonging to four classes: `1`, `2`, `3`, and `4`,
Finetuner will evenly sample *X* items per class to make a batch *B*.

> In the next step, arranges the items.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence.

> Many loss functions used by Finetuner are calculated based on the embeddings of Triples. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of Finetuner's loss functions contrast the embeddings of three items, or a __Triple__. 
```

> For those, Finetuner creates all possible Triplets *(anchor, pos, neg)* from this batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finetuner creates all possible Triplets *(anchor, pos, neg)* from this batch.
```

> These Triplets become the training data.

Reviewer: For each Triplet, the first is the __anchor__, the second is an embedding that ought to be closer to the embedding of the anchor, and the second is one that should be further from the anchor.

> These Triplets become the training data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each Triplet, the first is the __anchor__, the second is an embedding that ought to be closer to the embedding of the anchor, and the second is one that should be further from the anchor.
```

The objective is to pull Documents that belong to the same class together,

> while pushing the Documents which belong to a different class away from each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while pushing the embeddings of items which belong to different classes farther away from each other.
```

![training](../imgs/metric-train.png)

## The Triplet Margin Miner

> After Triplets construction,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> all possible *(anchor, pos, neg)* Triplets becomes the training data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

However, what if the pre-trained model already performs well on some of the Triplets?

> To put it in another way: *what if the distance between `anchor` and `pos` is much smaller than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the distance between the `anchor` embedding and `pos` is much smaller than
```

> the distance between `anchor` and `neg`?*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the distance between `anchor` and `neg`?
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> These Triplets, does not contribute to improving the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These Triplets do not contribute to improving the model, since they are already in the desired relation to each other in the embedding space.
```

> A more effective way is to use hard/semi-hard negative samples for model training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A more effective way is to use only a subset of all Triples for model training. We call this subset the **hard** or **semi-hard negative samples**.
```

![mining](../imgs/mining.png)

> Let's say `1₀` is an `anchor`, `1₁` is the `pos` while `2₄` is the `neg`, if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say `1₀` is an `anchor`, `1₁` is the `pos` while `2₄` is the `neg`, and `D(x,y)` is the distance between the embeddings of `x` and `y`.

If:
```

+ `D(anchor, neg) < D(anchor, pos) `, then `neg` can be considered as a "hard negative" (`2₄ - H`).
+ `D(anchor, pos) < D(anchor, neg) < D(anchor, pos) + margin`, where `neg` is a little further from the `pos`, but within the margin, then `neg` can be considered as a "semi-hard negative" (`2₄ - S`).
+ `D(anchor, neg) > D(anchor, pos) + margin`, then `neg` can be considered as "easy negative" (`2₄ - E`).

> Usually the training is more effective, when using only hard negatives (and semi-hard negatives) while filtering out easy negatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Training is more effective when using only **hard** and **semi-hard** negatives, given a reasonable margin value to distinguish them from **easy* Triplets.
```

> ## How?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Doing Negative Mining in Finetuner
```

> Finetuner allows you to use miners provided by the [PyTorch Metric Learning](https://kevinmusgrave.github.io/pytorch-metric-learning) framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finetuner is compatible with the miners provided by the [PyTorch Metric Learning](https://kevinmusgrave.github.io/pytorch-metric-learning) framework.
```

> To select a specific miner, you can pass its name to the fit function, e.g., `AngularMiner`, `TripletMarginMiner`, ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To select a specific miner, pass its name to the fit function, e.g., `AngularMiner`, `TripletMarginMiner`, ...
```

Please note that the miner has to be compatible with the loss function you selected.

> For instance, if you choose to train a model with the `TripleMarginLoss`, you can use the `TripletMarginMiner`.

Reviewer: 'can use' or 'must use'?

Reviewer 2: I think both is ok - you don't have to use a miner at all - but you it is the only one you can use.

> While without this miner, all possible triples with an anchor, a positive, and a negative candidate are constructed, the miner reduces this set of triples.

Reviewer: I don't understand this.

> Usually, only triples with hard negatives are selected where the distance between the positive and the negative example is inside a margin of `0.2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, only hard negative Triples are selected, using a margin of `0.2`.
```

> If you want to pass additional parameters to configure the miner, you can specify the `miner_options` parameter of the fit function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To pass additional parameters to configure the miner, use the `miner_options` parameter of the fit function.
```

> The example below shows how to apply hard-negative mining:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to use only hard-negative Triples and set the margin to `0.3`:
```

```diff
run = finetuner.fit(
    ...,
    loss='TripleMarginLoss',
+   miner='TripletMarginMiner',
+   miner_options={'margin': 0.3, 'type_of_triplets': 'hard'}
)
```

> The possible choices `type_of_triplets` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Possible choices for `type_of_triplets` are:
```

+ `easy`: Use all easy triplets - all triplets that do not violate the margin.

> + `semihard`: Use semi-hard triplets, but not hard triples - the negative is violating the margin but not as similar as the positve example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ `semihard`: Use semi-hard triplets, but not hard triplets, i.e. those where difference in distance is within the specified margin.
```

+ `hard`: Use only hard triplets - the negative is closer to the anchor than the positive.
+ `all`: Use `hard` and `semihard` triples - all but the `easy` triples

> Finetuner takes `TripleMarginLoss` as default loss function with no negative mining.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finetuner takes `TripleMarginLoss` as its default loss function with no negative mining.
```

> A detailed description of the miners and their parameters is specified in the [PyTorch Metric Learning documentation](https://kevinmusgrave.github.io/pytorch-metric-learning/miners/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed description of the miners and their parameters, see the [PyTorch Metric Learning documentation](https://kevinmusgrave.github.io/pytorch-metric-learning/miners/).
```
